Salesforce Topics for interview
Salesforce as a product ?
Questions
What is salesforce ?
What is CRM ?
What are its advantages over other products ? How it is different from other CRM products?
What are different clouds ? refer link
What is its architecture ?refer link
What is multi - tenant ?
Why governance limits were introduced?refer link
What do you know about service cloud ?
Apex Language
Questions
Collections in apex?
Access modifiers available in salesforce ?
With sharing and without sharing keyword
How to extend classes ? How to make them extensible ? How to make a method overridable ?
difference between insert and database.insert ?
Database class methods?
Database dml methods and regular dml operations?
Best practices for apex?
What is execution context ? how many contexts are there ?
What is System context and User context ?
What is Apex based sharing ?
What is wrapper class ? use cases of wrapper class ?
Order of execution
Question
Workflow and validation rules ? Order of executions ? When validation rules run with automation tools ?
Validation rule runs first or workfklow?
Objects and Relationships
Questions
What are different types of relationships available ? Self relationship ?
Junction object ? Which master object does it inherit security from ?
Self relationship ? Indirect relationship ?
diff between lookup and master in context of security and permission ?
Does one to one exist in salesforce?
externalId and recordId ?
How to create rollup on lookup relationship?
What will happen if one of the parent record in many to many relationship is deleted?
Relationship between standard salesforce objects ?
Triggers
Questions
What is trigger , Types of triggers ?
Can we write a trigger on user ?
When to use after triggers , and before ?
Roll up summary trigger ?
Can we make callout from apex triggers ? How to make callouts from apex?
Can we use queueable in apex trigger ?
Rollup summary with triggers ? How to implement that ? Try to write it as practice !?
What is maximum depth reached error in trigger ?
Why do we use static in case of avoiding recursion?
Where the static variable needs to be declared to avoid the recursion ? In Trigger or Class ?
difference between trigger.old and trigger.oldMap ?
How to run record in system context in between of the trigger?
Trigger context variables ?
On which object we cant write trigger?
Automation tools
Questions
Time based actions ? How many ways are there to do it based on time ? How to do in PBs?
Can we do time based actions with flows?
Process Builder
Questions
What actions are available in process builder ?
How to call apex methods from process builder ?
In which context does process builder runs?
Can we delete related records from process builder ?
@Invokable?
Checkbox box available on processbuilder ?What does it do?
Flow
Question
Can we do multiplication on flow screen ?
Types of flow ?
Workflow
Workflow evaluation criteria ?
can we create object with it?
workflow rule entry criteria's?
Types of workflow action available ?
Types of events for workflow ?
Apex Classes
Questions
How to delete apex class or trigger from Prod?
How to check for user permissions in apex class ?
How to check if record is locked in apex?
How will you debug apex class ?
What are other ways to debug?
Batch Classes
Question
Interfaces for batch Apex?
Database.Stateful?
Which state is maintained by stateful ?
Limits of batches?
How to handle failed records in the batches ? How to get count of those ?
How call batch class from a batch classs?
Can we call another batch class in execute method?
Is writing finish method mandatory ?
How to limit batch size ?
How many ways are there to retrieve records on start method?
Asynchronous Operations in Apex
Future Methods
Properties of future methods ?
Why future method is void ?
Limitations of future , How it is overcame with queueables?
why cant we use list of sobj in future?
Can we write future inside future method ? How to write if possible ?
How to handle mixed dml exception in future method?
How to pass sObject as parameter in future ? What is a way for that ?
Schedulable
Queueable
Can queue hold queues ?
Limits of Queue in salesforce ?
Approval Process
Test Class
Questions
How to test future methods and webService callouts ?
How to test class written by other people ?
what is testSetup annotation in unit test?
How to declare test methods in test class ?
System.runAs ?
isTestRunning use cases for that ?
By pass validations in the test class.
Query
SOQL
Question
Inner query in soql ? how to query related objects and custom objects?
How to query record type API name?
Wrapper class ?
How to print time taken by SOQL query?
SOSL
Question
Where can we use SOSL ?
Dynamic SOSL ?
Write a SOSL query to find the 'Orange' in all objects ?
What is return type of SOSL query?
Can DML operations be performed on SOSL result?
Which types of fields can it query on ?
Example of SOSL implementation in salesforce ?
Question
Types of DML operations available?
What is mixed dml error ? What are setup and non setup objects ?
How to resolve mixed dml error ? Ways for that ? Does System.runAs helps in this ? Does future method helps in this ?
whoid and whatid?
Security Questions
Profile
Role
Security Model
Sharing Rules
Questions
Various options to whom we can share with sharing rules ?
Manual Sharing
Questions
Use case for manual sharing ?
Custom Settings
Question : Use Case and configuration
Custom Metadata Type
Question : Use case and configuration
Questions
Can we share record to a perticular user ?
Difference between freezing the user and deactivating user ?
What will happen if user has ip range out of set range ?
Knowledge
Notes :
Questions :
What are knowledge articles
What are data categories ?
How to control visibility of knowledge?
List views
Questions
How to remove standard button from a list view?
How to Change behavior of the standard button on list view ?
Reports and Dashboards
Question
Report was deployed using change set and it is not visible in the next org what could be the reason ?
What are types of reports ?
Dynamic reports?
Deployment
Questions
Which deployment tools you have used ?
Which types of rules are available ?
How to resolve merge conflicts?
What is ANT tool ? What are advantages of ANT tool ?
Lightning
Questions
Different types of events in lightning platform?
What is $a ? other related stuff ?
What is difference between application event and component events ?
How to decide which type of event to use ? Can we use application event even if they are related ? Why are there 2 options ?
Is Lightning Aura an MVC framework?
In MVCC which controller is server side and which is client side , name those?
Lightning Base components provided by the salesforce
Interfaces used while creating Aura components?
What is helper js in aura ?
What are types of components that are bundled with aura component ?
What is cachable=true ? How does framework knows if data is same or not for cachable=true?
@auraenabled and cachable ?
How many ways are available for communication in lightning platform?
How to call child component methods with parent component ?
How to communicate between parent to child ?
How child to grandparent communication works ?
Fire an Lightning event? How to use that event ? Do we need to register application event ? How to fire the event ?
How to communicate between siblings ? with or without messaging services ?
What is lightning messaging service ? Use cases for that?
What are different ways to call methods of apex class ?
Lightning Data service ?
Integration
Questions
I have custom object , when saving it there is an external system which will perform some operations and let us know if we should save it. How to implement this?
On button click it calls a web service , calling external system and returning a response , with more data it gives time out error ? How to resolve that ?
Have you implemented integration in project ?
Rest or soap api ? How do i know if it is rest or soap ?
Authentication of API ?
OAuth 2.0 Integration ? How does OAuth 2 works ? How it works with salesforce ?
Benefits of named credentials ? What are named credentials ?
Use of state parameter in OAuth 2.0?
What are Web services? have you worked on the web services?
What is SSO ? How to implement in salesforce ?
Authentication in salesforce ?
What is connected app ?
What is endpoint in salesforce ?
Anonymous Questions
Questions
How to override standard save button's Logic ?
What is sales process?
What is continuation ?
Omnichannel skill based routing ? What approach , How to implement it ?
I am making a callout , it is executing fine when i am running with annonymous window , but it is not working when i am running it from isExecuting context ? What is issue?
Which standard buttons can be overridden?
How to call flows from the button?
How to implement pagination?
standard controller and custom controller ?
What is data skew ?
what is .addError method ?
What is Outbound message ?
auto launch flow ? pause element?
What are field sets?
How to configure my domain ?
Lightning and classic URL ?
LWC
Questions
Lifecycle methods in LWC ?
LWC component lifecycle flow ?
Project Structure of LWC bundle?
What is bubbling what is capturing ?
How to call child component methods with parent component ?
How child to grandparent communication works ?
What are callback funtions ?
What are promises ?
can callbacks be async ? Are callbacks async ?
What are decorators ? Which are there ?
What is 2 way binding ? What is binding in LWC ?
What types of communication is available in LWC ?
When does wire method executes ?
can we call wire method from button click ?
Which will execute first ? Either wire method or connected callback ?
Which will execute first ? Either wire method or rendered callback ?
Dynamically create a component can we do that ?
What are different ways to call methods of apex class ?
How to export LWC component to outside of salesforce ? How to display that outside?
How to use LWC component inside Aura and VF?
Why LWC when aura is available?
How to import static resources in LWC ?
What imports are there when we create a LWC component ?
@wire scenarios , which method ran first how to handle that?
How to make LWC components only available on account page?
How to add properties to the lwc? Can we add list to the properties ?
Can we call wire methods from lwc component ?
How to create a record without using apex in LWC?
Lightning UI and wire adapters ?
How to get the userData in LWC?
Data flow in LWC ? from parent to child ? or child to parent ?
How many ways are to implement wire service ?
Limitations and Governance Limits
Important Link

Questions?
How many future methods can we call from a class?
Visual Force
Questions?
render , reRender , renderAs what are these ?
What are states in visualforce ?
